[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: The flag
I've been waving for decades is
that once we can consciously
connect with our higher self,
the game changes.
We know our purpose, our past,
and what we need to do now.
Toward that end,
Dr. Linda Backman
has been teaching her
students the nature
of the soul and the differences
among the souls here on Earth.
And we are wildly different.
Welcome back, Linda.
It's wonderful to
sit with you again.
>> LINDA BACKMAN:
Thank you, Regina.
It's great to be back.
>> REGINA: So I thought what
we'd do is for people who
didn't see our previous
show-- and I recommend they do
because we'll do some
other things too--
but go over a few things
like the nature of the soul.
And you call the soul
the higher self, right?
>> BACKMAN: I mean, that's an
important-- can we start there?
>> REGINA: Let's start there
because the vernacular for what
soul, spirit, and
higher self is,
is different from tradition to
tradition and person to person.
So give us, so we know
what you're talking about,
your definition.
>> BACKMAN: OK, good.
That's wonderful for clarity.
OK, so when we're in body--
you, me, people listening--
when we're in body, we have
a portion of our soul energy
in our body that causes
us to live and breathe.
Our higher self is the
remainder of our soul
that exists somewhere in
the spiritual realm that
is not in our body.
And we have to have a
higher self because that's
part of our guidance system.
So higher self and soul
and body are related,
but they're, we might say, two
different aspects of our soul.
>> REGINA: Yeah, and
because of my background,
I tend to come from the language
of hermetics although embrace
many, many different
philosophies and traditions.
The language there would pair--
it's almost like
a pairing complex
of that infinite spark
of soul and the higher
mind as a complex.
But the higher mind can
be accessed and translated
to the lower mind, to
our conscious mind.
So I'm coming from that place.
So when I'm talking
to you, that's
what I'm seeing in my mind.
And the problem is that
most people are not
connecting consciously
with the higher mind, which
is here to do the guiding.
>> BACKMAN: I could have said
the exact same words to you.
That is part of the
issue for a lot of people
is they're not connecting
to their soul energy
in the higher realm.
And that way, they
know who they are.
They receive their
guidance, but they
don't think about
connecting to what
you might be calling
the higher mind
and I would call
the higher self.
>> REGINA: Yeah, same thing.
So the higher self--
you and I have the
same perception
that the higher self is probably
our most profound guidance.
But at times, we can't
access it so we need
help from some other friends.
Can you talk about
this a little bit?
>> BACKMAN: Yes, so let's put
that if we can in the context
of spiritual guides.
So here's what I know from
years of guiding regression
about spiritual guides.
And I know we'll talk about
the different types of souls.
But if you are a soul that
primarily incarnates on Earth,
then your higher
self is a guide.
And at the same time, you have
a separate experienced guide
that is not your higher self.
If you're an
interplanetary soul,
meaning you come from
somewhere else in the universe
and you don't come
here often, then
your higher self, not always but
often, is your primary guide.
And I also know we'll
talk about angelic souls.
If you're a soul from
the angelic realm,
usually, your higher
self is your main guide.
>> REGINA: So tell us what
the unique challenge is
because we're talking
percentages here.
Most of the people on Earth
are Earth-based souls, you say.
They've incarnated many times,
and they know the energetic.
And they know the drill of
what it means to be human,
the physicality, the
energies of the Earth,
the resistance,
beauty, et cetera.
You say that you are a
very, very well-experienced
Earth-based soul.
>> BACKMAN: Right.
So I'll put it in percentages
to try to ground it.
About 95% of humans
are Earth-based souls,
meaning their soul was designed
to grow and evolve on Earth.
And about 95% of humans are--
if we put soul evolution
on a 10-point scale,
95% of humans are probably
between a 4 and 6.
>> REGINA: What's that mean?
>> BACKMAN: That means that
they're-- think about it like
Earth-based souls come into
body on Earth to grow and learn.
So 95% of humans are souls
designed to come primarily
to Earth, and they are midrange
of development in terms
of soul wisdom or--
>> REGINA: Soul development.
>> BACKMAN: Exactly.
>> REGINA: Yeah, so
around midland, 4 to 6--
>> BACKMAN: Exactly.
>> REGINA: --yeah, on the scale.
Yeah.
>> BACKMAN: Then if we take that
other 5% that we're not talking
about-- so that
other 5% of humans,
about half are advanced
Earth-based souls,
souls that are 7s, 8s, and 9s on
a 10-point scale of evolution.
And then take the other--
I hope this isn't
confusing for people.
Take the other 2 and 1/2%, and
we have to split that into two.
Half of that 2 and 1/2%
or so are interplanetary,
and the other half are angelic.
Those souls,
interplanetary and angelic,
are all highly advanced.
That's why they come to
Earth to help us, basically.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
they're on a mission.
>> BACKMAN: Correct.
>> REGINA: And so they usually
have their own guidance.
They're clear on what they're
here to do and oftentimes
find that path earlier in life
than an Earth-based soul that's
trying to figure it out and
not getting clear communication
with their higher mind.
>> BACKMAN: Correct.
And often struggle more
than Earth-based souls
do in body on Earth.
>> REGINA: Being in a body in
particular is very difficult.
>> BACKMAN: Correct.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> BACKMAN: Yeah, yeah.
>> REGINA: So let's talk about--
well, OK, so as an
Earth-based soul, which
is the average person that's
going to be walking around
on Earth between a
4 and 6, and they're
trying to gain access to their
guidance, what's blocking them
from going directly
to the higher mind
and rather having to talk
directly with a guide?
What's the benefit of each
aspect in development?
>> BACKMAN: Well, one thing
that's blocking so many humans,
as I was blocked until
I was well into my 40s,
one thing that's blocking them
is they don't understand how
to access intuition, or they
don't trust their intuition.
>> REGINA: Well, and society
makes sure you don't.
>> BACKMAN: That's right.
>> REGINA: So to be fair, we've
got a lot working against us
on Earth.
>> BACKMAN: Correct.
Correct.
We're not taught,
what is intuition?
How does it work?
We think we're making it up.
So yes.
But for an Earth-based soul--
and obviously, I'm an example
of an Earth-based soul.
For an Earth-based
soul, we communicate
with both, both a lead guide
that's not our higher self
and with our higher self.
And so we almost have
not more guidance
than an interplanetary
soul or an angelic,
but we have almost two
avenues, two connections.
I often talk to my higher self.
I'd like to just call it her.
Does my higher self have gender?
No.
But her is just easier.
And I talk to my main guide
that is not my higher self.
>> REGINA: So I'm going to guess
from your mission in life that
you're among the percent that
are advanced Earth-based souls.
You've been around a long time.
You've really been
working on it.
And so each of
those aspects, does
one come in handy more than
the other, an outside guide
versus higher self?
Are there distinctions
between how you use them?
>> BACKMAN: Regina, that's
an awesome question.
Let me see how to answer that.
That's hard.
When I talk to my
higher self, it's
almost like I'm talking
to my big sister.
I don't literally have a
big sister in current life,
but it's almost like I'm
talking to my big sis.
I respect her.
But she's also me, part of me.
When I talk to my
main guide, who I
know at this stage of my life.
I'm very familiar
with my main guide
as a very advanced-- we might
call an ascended master.
There's a little bit
more of a mentor feel.
There's a little bit more
of a senior professor
but not in a dogmatic,
critical way.
So I actually go to each of
them with different types
of questions.
>> REGINA: OK, yeah,
well, that's good.
For anyone listening who
are also in the same boat,
I just want to give a little
practical information up front.
So first of all, you say
there are three components
of the way our minds work.
Part of it is the
past, which of course,
is the subconscious,
where everything
is embodied, essentially.
It's all remembered.
We carry that forward
with us, those memories,
the subconscious memories to
help us contend with Earth life.
We've got a template
in there for when
this happens, step that way.
So let's talk about
that part of our mind.
>> BACKMAN: So what
we're talking about--
I mean, obviously, I understand
the brain to a degree because
of my background in psychology.
I think of the
subconscious as, what's
that content of information
that's held in my human brain
that if I relax or if I
have a dream or I daydream,
I can track?
Now, what was the name of
my second grade teacher?
Oh, yeah her name was so and so.
>> REGINA: That's going to be
over there in that library.
>> BACKMAN: That's right.
And that's the library in
my human brain as opposed
to the library at my soul level.
>> REGINA: Right.
Right.
Because the library of the
soul level continues with us,
does it not?
So we can continue
growing from that base
and learning from that base.
>> BACKMAN: Right.
And the library
at the soul level
is held with our higher self.
But also, our main guide, if
we have a separate main guide,
they also have access
to our library.
>> REGINA: Right.
OK, good.
So one of the things
that we weren't
going to talk about
but I'd like to is,
first, we'll get into the nature
of these different three soul
types and the notion that
Earth-based souls in particular
have the ability,
as far as you're
able to see in all these
regressions, to split
into different incarnations
simultaneously,
which is interesting.
Some systems say
that's not possible.
Others say it is possible.
So we're going to talk
about evidence for that.
So first of all, tell us about
the nature of Earth-based souls
a little bit.
You talked about it a bit.
And the nature of
interplanetary souls and largely
what they're tasked
with and angelic.
>> BACKMAN: OK, well, the nature
of Earth-based souls is that
we've just been here over
and over most of the time.
Maybe not over and
over quite as much
as I have or other
experienced Earth-based souls
but still Earth-based souls.
It's like if I need to drive
from Denver to Colorado Springs,
I don't need a map, because
I have a lot of experience
in a particular state.
Earth-based souls sort
of know the ropes.
>> REGINA: So they're a little
physically, emotionally,
generally more
comfortable, you're saying?
>> BACKMAN: Generally.
But the more advanced
and Earth-based soul
is, then they begin to be
very affected by energy, very
affected by intuition that
might get in the way at times
but is purposeful.
But nonetheless, they're
experienced just being in body,
in these human bodies that
are unique over and over
and over and over again.
>> REGINA: And so then
we go to the IP souls,
which are interplanetary.
They can be from other planets.
Can they also be from
other dimensions?
>> BACKMAN: So that depends on
what people mean by dimensions.
And so maybe the
easiest way to put
it is that interplanetary
souls on Earth
almost always come
from somewhere
inside of the solar system
that contains Earth.
And we often call
that the solar system,
but it's the solar system
because we're living on Earth.
And so interplanetary souls
come from planets, star systems,
but they also come from
nondense locations like--
>> REGINA: That's
what I'm asking.
>> BACKMAN: --you're
referring to.
They don't always come from
something that has density.
They can come from spacecraft.
They don't always have to be
from Sirius or the Pleiades.
They come from places where
the names mean nothing to us.
>> REGINA: Right.
Right.
And so people are perked up and
listening to this and thinking,
well, I don't feel
comfortable on Earth.
How might they
identify themselves
if they were an IP soul?
>> BACKMAN: Various ways.
One of my favorite ways, because
I hear this a lot from clients,
is that it's the person who
says to me something like this.
You know, Linda, even
as a young child,
I was fascinated
with the night sky.
Even as a five-year-old,
I would stand
by the window in the evening
and stare out the window.
And my parents would say, Suzy,
Johnny, whatever, come away
from the window.
But no, I was fascinated
with what goes on
out there in the dark sky.
As an Earth-based soul, I
wasn't fascinated with that.
So usually,
something sci-fi-ish,
astrologically related
they're fascinated with.
The other common identifying
feature is health,
is allergies, digestive
disorders, sleep issues,
autoimmune disorders,
the autistic spectrum,
those people who
struggle in such ways,
sometimes to extremes,
not always to extremes.
That's often a sign of
an interplanetary soul.
>> REGINA: Well, one very,
very, very hotly debated
and well-known one that
immediately comes to mind is
Elon Musk.
He cannot be an
Earth-based soul.
>> BACKMAN: I don't
know for sure.
But I would suspect you're
completely accurate.
>> REGINA: Especially with
his drive to take human
consciousness to Mars
since he was a kid.
We got to get to Mars.
And being on the spectrum
at the same time,
saying inappropriate things
because he doesn't have filters.
So that's kind of an
interesting extreme version,
I think, of what's
likely a planetary soul.
He has a lot of digestive
issues, too, I hear.
>> BACKMAN: Yes, and
also think about--
and I don't necessarily want
to name names even of public
figures.
But think about famous movie
producers and directors,
the Spielbergs of the world.
If you think about
the kind of movies
that someone-- there are others
besides Steven Spielberg,
but Spielberg tends to do, for
the most part, Earth-based type
movies.
But you think about some of
the other famous directors
and producers and writers,
where they're teaching us
about the broader perspective of
the world out there and space.
This "Soul" movie, the
Disney movie "Soul,"
those are probably
writers, directors,
producers that are
interplanetary souls.
>> REGINA: Right.
So as you said, hard living
in the body, it's a stretch.
So now let's go
to the other teeny
percentage, which are
the angelic souls.
>> BACKMAN: Yes,
and you're right.
As I said, teeny
percentage, yes.
But spiritual people
that are probably
interested in what
we're discussing--
>> REGINA: Have a high
percentage like in our audience.
>> BACKMAN: That's right.
Fit in that--
>> REGINA: Both IPs
and angelic souls.
>> BACKMAN: Totally.
Totally.
So angelics is the
third type of souls
that I began to learn
a lot about, oh, I
don't know, 10, 12, 14 years
ago through my clients.
So angelic souls
serve the divine.
We're talking about divine.
I want people out there
to pick their word--
the source, great
spirit, the Tao.
Another term I tend to
use, an Eastern term,
the Manu is a highly
advanced group soul
that seeks to guide Earth
and humanity forward
in terms of evolution.
So the Manu, the source,
whatever you call it,
they have a cadre of
souls that support them
as ambassadors, carrying--
and human words are inadequate--
carrying love and compassion
to an extreme but
bringing it to Earth.
There are angelic
souls on Earth.
They struggle with the
lack of love on our planet.
And I don't just mean
everyday kind of love,
love, love like
we talk about it.
But--
>> REGINA: With cruelty.
For example, they have
a very difficult time
with cruelty and war.
And unkindness,
insensitivity would just
be devastating to them.
>> BACKMAN: Right.
And we need these souls.
I'm going to give a quick
example that pops into my mind
and be cautious to
camouflage this a bit.
This is a woman who's a nurse.
She's an angelic soul.
She works in a large hospital
in the United States.
She was the head of the
ER for a period of time.
She was the charge nurse, the
main nurse in charge of the ER.
And all these street people kept
being brought in, especially
on weekends.
And they were acting
strange and bizarre.
And normally, when
they came into the ER,
the ER docs would hit them with
heavy sedatives, major sedatives
to knock them out.
And finally, she said to some
of the head doctors in the ER,
she said, could we start by
giving them a shower, a meal,
and time to sleep?
>> REGINA: A cup of tea
and, yeah, some sleep.
>> BACKMAN: Exactly.
And then let's see if
they need heavy sedatives,
or they don't need heavy
sedatives to calm down.
Sure enough, she's an angelic
soul with some nurturance.
These street people didn't
need heavy sedatives.
That's the way an
angelic soul would think.
>> REGINA: That's beautiful.
But then didn't the people
return to the street,
and then it just starts
the cycle over again?
So what do they do
when they've been
bumped around so much
by life that they're not
contending very easily with it?
>> BACKMAN: Well, we don't
assist street people in ways
they need to be assisted.
There are programs
here in the state
where I live where they're
building tent communities,
where they get food.
They get water.
They get warmth.
We just tend to cast
those people aside
because we decide we're
scared of them or something--
>> REGINA: Because they're
operating outside of social
norms.
>> BACKMAN: That's correct.
That's correct.
>> REGINA: So
backtracking a little bit,
so I assume that was a
regression of a woman.
OK, let's talk about
something that jumps
to mind as a fascinating
regression of an IP soul.
>> BACKMAN: I have so many.
One pops in my mind from
recently, this is a woman--
again, I'm wanting to be
appropriate and confidential.
This is a woman into
her adult years.
She has a very responsible--
I'm going to call her
a spiritual leader.
And she has always talked to
what she calls the great mother.
So we might quickly
think, well, we're
talking about the soul of
Mother Mary or Kwan Yin.
>> REGINA: Or Earth.
>> BACKMAN: Or Earth.
Correct.
And in fact, she's an IP soul
that comes from somewhere--
I really don't know where.
And she works with what was
described with lots of detail--
I didn't give her the details.
She gave it to me--
the great mother in the
universe that is, we might say,
the energy of the
quintessential divine feminine.
>> REGINA: Isis even
in Egyptian terms.
>> BACKMAN: Correct.
Exactly.
And that is the energy she
brings as a spiritual leader
to help people.
At first, I thought
she was Earth based.
But as we went further
in her regression,
she's interplanetary.
So this is the mother,
the nurturer, the deeply,
deeply caring--
the caregiver in the
universe that exists.
And that's the energy she
brings to people she works with.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
And I mean, when I
think of that energy
and I think of the kind
of-- if you go back
to the basis of
everything, if you
go through the Egyptian lens of
Osiris and Isis, you have logos,
and you have prima
materia, basically,
which is we need to
learn how to work
with these mediums,
these creative mediums
on a different level
now because we're not
understanding that logos
has effect on matter,
the creation of matter,
the creation of what
we see in our world.
And so what she's
doing, it sounds
like she's going back to one
of the most primitive aspects
of what it is to be the receiver
that ultimately manifests
into nurturing.
That's pretty powerful.
>> BACKMAN: Yes,
and I think, Regina,
a piece that is really important
that I hear from clients is that
the master levels of high,
evolved energy that, again,
we might call source, they are--
and I hear this-- they are
extremely worried about humanity
because humanity, we have a
huge sex trafficking problem,
for example.
Humanity is I might say not
progressing as much as source
would wish for us to progress.
So just in relation
to what you just said,
humanity is pushed harder.
And more advanced souls are
being brought closer to Earth
to try to guide we as humans,
to guide us to take steps,
I might say, to clean
up our human act.
>> REGINA: And if you then
go through the Vedic lens,
that validates
what you're saying.
We are in the Kali Yuga.
That is a difficult cycle.
We're in a dark cycle
and trying to find
our way back to
the light as we're
emerging from that dark cycle.
So we need, as Earth needs,
all the help it can get.
And I think it's
really important.
If people start teaching
the mechanics of how
reality works, the nature of
reality, the nature of creation,
the nature of working
with the masculine,
the word, the thought
form, the feminine,
the reception that materializes
into this ultimate reality,
we don't even know how
reality-- we don't even
study how reality works.
The building blocks
of reality, they
should start with
that in kindergarten.
And IPs, well, I'm an IP, right?
So that's the kind
of thing, of course,
I think about all
the time is, why
aren't we teaching
the building blocks
of nature of reality
in kindergarten?
[LAUGHS]
>> BACKMAN: Exactly.
And that's the beauty
of an IP you talking
to an Earth-based soul, EB me,
is that we don't study the soul.
We don't study, where
did we come from?
Why are we here?
What's our purpose?
Where is our soul?
What is our soul doing?
What is our higher self doing
when we're here in body?
We don't teach that.
>> REGINA: I know.
And it's critical
for us to start
learning about the essence of
what we are, how we create,
what our minds, what our
words, what our connection
with each other does.
It's just so
elementary, and it's
the furthest thing from any
kind of educational system.
So anyway, that's my
little axe to grind.
So let's go on now back
to Earth-based souls
and the nature of trying to
speed up this process a bit
maybe.
I assume it's not for
kicks that a soul splits.
>> BACKMAN: Absolutely
not for kicks.
>> REGINA: So let's talk about
what happens when a soul splits
and then explain the difference
between that and what we might
call a twin soul.
Or is it one and the same?
>> BACKMAN: OK, well, some of
it depends on who you're talking
to and what they
mean by those terms.
So just to quickly
comment on twin soul,
when I use the term "twin
soul," I mean if I, Linda,
have a twin soul, that is
another soul with whom I've had
many, many, many, many lives--
>> REGINA: OK, so strong
resonance with a separate soul.
>> BACKMAN: Correct.
>> REGINA: OK, now split soul.
>> BACKMAN: Split soul,
which happens primarily only
for Earth-based souls but on
occasion with angelic souls--
and I'll come back to that.
There's, I think, an important
piece to say about angelics.
As an Earth-based soul
that is experienced,
an Earth-based soul can
split into more than one,
be more than one person
simultaneously because they've
agreed to try to help the
planet progress faster,
farther, if you will.
And there are a lot
of public figures
that are splits, that
are the same soul.
Sometimes you can
recognize this by thinking
about two people you know
in the public eye that
tend to look alike.
And often that is the same soul.
And for now, I'll
leave names out.
Maybe that's the
cleanest way to put it.
But Earth-based souls do split.
I actually know that
I have soul splits.
>> REGINA: How many?
How many can one have at a time,
motivated by the same soul?
>> BACKMAN: That's
a great question.
A very, very advanced
Earth-based soul
can have 25 splits.
>> REGINA: Wow.
>> BACKMAN: Yeah, and the reason
is that an Earth-based soul
that's been here many times
can energetically balance--
how difficult it is from
the higher self level,
can balance that
many incarnations.
But it's by way of trying
to push humanity forward.
The other piece that's
probably important for me
to interject just so
that we talk about it,
angelics can have splits.
And this may stretch
people's minds.
So I want people to
think about archangels.
So archangels, as
most people know,
are the leaders,
the coordinators
of the angelic realm that
work directly with source.
Archangels are the four
classic archangels.
Plus, there are more.
So there's Michael.
There's Gabriel.
There's Raphael.
There's Uriel.
There are other
archangels as well.
Some of the archangels
do still incarnate.
Some of the archangels,
I have regressed clients
that the content is too
specific to be wrong.
They are aspects
of an archangel.
Certain archangels--
Michael is one example--
have splits on Earth at this
time, again, to try to affect--
>> REGINA: Their projecting a
portion of soul into a human
form.
>> BACKMAN: That's correct.
That's correct.
>> REGINA: So would you say
from the people that are here
for very clear purpose
that you've regressed,
do you see that as fairly common
then for the Earth-based souls
who have split?
Did you see the split
happening in people
who are very
purposeful and really
trying to do a lot with the soul
in a given time frame like this?
>> BACKMAN: Yes, I do.
But I also think
it's important to say
that there are a lot
of Earth-based souls
that are experienced
that don't have splits.
So it's not
necessarily the norm,
but it certainly does happen.
>> REGINA: That's interesting.
So it gives people
something to think about.
OK, and thank you
for your definition
also of the twin flame.
So when I think
of angelic souls,
I think of my late
stepmother, who was--
she just lived to
love everything.
There was nothing more--
a lot of people thought she was
too simple because she didn't
have this drive and purpose.
And I said, well, that's
a pretty high purpose.
Everyone that touched her and
touched into her life felt seen
and loved, every baby,
every animal, every adult,
just a sparkly beautiful
little soul named May--
not little soul but
little woman named May.
>> BACKMAN: Yeah, I mean,
that just brings up--
that's the beauty of
conversation with you and me,
brings up a couple of things.
One is that when I work
with an angelic soul,
almost always they are some of
the most nonjudgmental people
I have ever met in my life.
>> REGINA: She was like that.
No judgment.
>> BACKMAN: But the other piece
that's important to say is there
are interplanetary souls that
come from places in the universe
that are also focused
almost completely on heart,
heart energy.
And they are not
angelic souls, but they
come across that same
way because they're so
feeling oriented.
>> REGINA: Yeah, OK, so I
want to get into these traits
because people are listening,
thinking, gee, where am I?
Where's my spouse, where's
my child in all of this?
And so there's another thing.
You're talking about an overlay
also of seven archetypes.
And last time, we
did not get to that,
and I wanted to make
time for it this time.
So let's talk about
the archetypal element
to all of this.
>> BACKMAN: So this
came through regression.
I learned this person to
person to person to person.
And what I understand
is that when
we are on Earth, no
matter which type of soul
we are-- and there's a
slight difference, which
I'll try to be clear about.
So an Earth-based
soul like myself,
I have a soul archetype
that is immortal.
It's one of seven energies.
None of us seven
are better than--
one isn't better than
the other, and I'll
give a couple of examples.
>> REGINA: We're going to go
through all seven, by the way.
>> BACKMAN: OK.
OK, perfect.
Perfect.
>> REGINA: We have
time to do it.
>> BACKMAN: OK, that's perfect.
OK, so let's do that.
So as an Earth-based soul,
I have a soul archetype.
It's unchanging.
It shows up in all my lives.
So OK, so we'll delineate
each of these seven.
The first of the seven,
I like to call it--
I can use this because the
person's not on the planet
anymore.
We might call it the
Steve Jobs energy,
meaning it's the change agent.
You could also call
it the Moses energy.
The change agent of
this isn't working,
so we're going to make change.
It is someone who's very
strong, very directive, pretty
left brained, and says,
I've got to make change.
And the way things are working
isn't going the way it is.
And that's Steve Jobs, who
obviously created the Apple
computer.
I don't know for sure
that Steve Jobs is
what we might call a first
ray soul, but probably he is.
So that's first ray.
I'll add that I had a
mother that was first ray.
And until I
understood archetypes,
I didn't get my mother.
It was like, oh,
she's so specific.
She's sometimes so demanding,
and it's like, aha, she's
a first ray soul.
So no wonder she's like that.
So that's first ray.
Second ray flips
over to right brain.
It flips over to love, caring,
nurturing, making sure everybody
gets their needs met.
Probably your mother-in-law, I
think, you said or grandmother.
>> REGINA: My stepmom.
>> BACKMAN: Stepmom.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> BACKMAN: Yeah, 10 to 1, your
stepmom was second ray energy.
It's that deep,
deep, caring person.
And it could be caring
in front of the scenes
or behind the scenes.
So it could be
some public figure
that is just so kind and
loving and supportive.
But it could be your everyday
neighbor who's just sweet--
>> REGINA: Like May.
>> BACKMAN: And wonderful.
So that's second ray, and these
keep flipping left brain, right
brain, left brain, right brain.
Third ray soul-- and I know some
of your listeners are saying,
oh, Linda's talking
about theosophy.
Linda's talking about the
ray structure of theosophy.
Yes, I am with some expansion
and a little bit of tweaks
to that sort of paradigm
of understanding.
Third ray soul, actually,
I'm a third ray soul.
Third rays love to learn and
learn and learn and, ad nauseam,
learn more.
They're wanting
to meld knowledge,
and then they're wanting
to benefit our culture
by melding knowledge.
So a third ray soul isn't
just trying to be intellectual
all the time but is
tasked with understanding
knowledge and wisdom
and then sharing it
in one way or another.
So that's number three.
Number four, think about--
we can use public figures.
I'm going to use
someone I've never
regressed, of
course, Frida Kahlo,
one of the more famous
artists on our planet.
Fourth ray souls are
aesthetic people.
They're into cooking.
They're into art.
They're into design.
They're into anything that we
think about, melding elements.
They're musicians.
Yeah, so fourth ray is
on the feeling side,
but it's on the aesthetic--
>> REGINA: Artistic in
all its expressions.
>> BACKMAN: Exactly.
Again, and all of these can
be in front of the scenes
and behind the scenes.
>> REGINA: Right.
OK, and now we have
logistics, fifth ray.
>> BACKMAN: So number
five is easy to explain.
It's probably the easiest.
It's the person who makes
pieces fit together.
It's the family
member that decides,
every Thanksgiving, who's
going to bring what.
And--
>> REGINA: I have a friend
that exemplifies that.
25 people for six days
every Thanksgiving,
man, that thing is
run like a war room.
>> BACKMAN: Exactly.
It's the implementer.
It's the strategy person.
>> REGINA: It's impressive.
>> BACKMAN: We need
people to do that.
>> REGINA: It's impressive.
>> BACKMAN: Totally.
>> REGINA: I'm not that.
>> BACKMAN: Yeah, totally.
I'm not that either.
So that's number five.
Number six goes back
to being right brained.
Number six is like taking
love, compassion and putting it
on steroids.
It's group cohesion.
It's the neighborhood.
It's the family.
It's the country,
or it's the person
who is very effective at
international politics.
>> REGINA: I was just going
to ask about that, yeah.
>> BACKMAN: Yeah,
it's the person--
I mean, I'm thinking
about people I know.
>> REGINA: Diplomats,
politicians,
in the highest sense,
would represent that.
>> BACKMAN: Exactly.
Exactly.
How can we make sure that
groups work together effectively
and with equality?
So it's that egalitarian person.
So that's number six.
It's a caring person
who is strong.
And you think
they're left brained,
but they're strongly right
brained because of their group
caring energy.
Then lastly, number seven.
Number seven is
the Merlin energy.
It's the humanitarian.
It's the alchemy of
energies one through six.
It's taking each of the six
energies, melding it into one
and bringing it to the
sustainability and the stability
that we need with humanity.
So that's number seven.
>> REGINA: They're
the alchemists.
>> BACKMAN: That's right.
>> REGINA: OK, so this then
comes into the subject of dharma
because you say that our dharma
carries over from lifetime
to lifetime, which means
it sounds to me like you
can't separate that from
this archetypal energy.
>> BACKMAN: No,
absolutely not, because--
>> REGINA: So talk about
yourself, for example.
>> BACKMAN: Well, your dharma--
dharma meaning soul intention.
So again, I'll use myself,
as you're suggesting.
My dharma from my lives--
in other words, what have I
accomplished in my lifetimes--
builds on itself.
And then when I come
into body again,
I bring the compilation of
all that dharma or all that
what I've accomplished forward.
Does that mean I'm a
perfectly accomplished soul,
that anybody is a perfectly
accomplished soul?
Absolutely not.
I still have karma to clean up.
I still have intentions
I haven't satisfied,
but our dharma is crucial.
Often, people come
for regression,
and one of the things
we're going to do
is discover a past life.
So often, the client, before
the regression starts,
says, oh, I don't want to know
I've done something wrong.
I don't want to know that I
was an uninvolved spouse, or--
>> REGINA: They don't want to
see themselves as a bad person.
>> BACKMAN: That's right.
That's right.
>> REGINA: They're scared
of seeing the dark stuff.
>> BACKMAN: And I say to them,
when we discover a past life
today, number one, I don't
choose the past life.
The higher self of my client and
the guides choose the past life.
But I say to the person, you
may learn about dharma today,
not karma.
Your guides may want
you to know what
you've accomplished that you
don't give yourself credit for.
And so often, that
comes forward.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
and people are--
we have been made over thousands
of years to feel less than.
I mean, in the Judeo-Christian
world, the word "sinner"
is inculcated into your mind and
vocabulary from the time you go
to Sunday school three
four or five years old.
You're a sinner.
You're less than.
So of course, people have
a terrible, low self-esteem
thinking that they're bad.
But my belief is, intrinsically,
most people are good,
though we've all done some
bad things in our incarnations
we have to sweep up at
some point, rebalance.
>> BACKMAN: Well, and I think
it's how you're putting it too.
It's that most of us
at the core are good.
It's behavior that
we need to clean up.
>> REGINA: Yeah, and you know
what was going on at the time,
and you just stepped
over the line.
And well, you'll bounce
that one out down the road.
>> BACKMAN: Exactly.
Exactly.
>> REGINA: The thing
is there's grace to it.
There's grace to even
the subject of karma.
So anyway, so yes, thank you for
explaining about that archetypes
and also the continuation of
these urgent desires that we
wish to fulfill in a lifetime
that we end up calling dharma.
And one thing you've
been looking at
is examining a grief through
the lens of the soul, grief
and loss.
And you're writing a
new book, and we're
going to come back after that
book's out and talk about it.
But just give us an idea of what
you're focusing on in this book
and why.
>> BACKMAN: Yeah, and I want
to just quickly come back
to your word "grace" and
then answer your question.
Yes, I agree there is
almost always grace.
I will add, though, because I
learned this through clients,
that if someone is a
despot, if someone has--
>> REGINA: Psychopath and cruel.
>> BACKMAN: --then
when they cross over,
when that life is over, my
understanding is that that soul
must take time to learn
and clean up some of that
inappropriate behavior--
>> REGINA: No, that makes sense.
>> BACKMAN: --before
they come back.
>> REGINA: But we're talking
about a more extreme class
of psychology.
We're talking about
psychopaths and people
that don't have empathy.
>> BACKMAN: That is correct.
>> REGINA: And that's
not most people.
>> BACKMAN: That's right.
That's right.
>> REGINA: So most people
are totally good at heart.
And thank you for
bringing that up.
And yeah, we're seeing a rise,
however, in mental illness.
And we're seeing a
rise in psychosis
and other types of
mental disorders,
narcissism, and so forth, but
we're not going to go there.
We have a few minutes
left to talk about grief,
loss through the
lens of the soul.
>> BACKMAN: Yeah, so why did I
decide to write another book?
I would say there's probably
two or three reasons.
One is I wanted to
write one more book that
is almost like a handbook.
It's looking at helping
people, whether they ever
have a regression or
they don't, helping
them understand with as
much clarity as possible,
am I Earth based?
Am I interplanetary?
Am I angelic?
The angelic material is not
something I've written about,
so that will be a first.
But to help people
comprehend themselves
and embrace themselves.
Then in addition, I started in
this whole field of psychology
through grief and loss
through my own grief and loss.
And I think grief and loss
needs to be understood
not just from an everyday,
conventional perspective
but more from soul.
Why is there a
particular soul that
either passed three months
ago or 30 years ago,
what's my connection
with that soul?
For what reason has that
affected me so much?
What's going on at the
soul level in terms of--
>> REGINA: That's where it
should all be examined from,
in my opinion.
but--
>> BACKMAN: Yeah, and
maybe lastly, Regina,
here's where we started with our
discussion is about higher self.
So many people
don't think to talk
to their higher mind,
their higher self
and let that support them.
So there's a whole
chapter in guidance on how
to connect with higher self.
So that's why it was time to
dig in and write another book.
>> REGINA: Well, I'm glad
you are because, as I said
in the open, that's the missing
ingredient for almost all
of humanity, and we have
to snap out of that.
We cannot afford to continue
to just bump around in the dark
and bump into each other and
say, hey, it's good enough.
The times that we're entering
are demanding more of us
than that.
So it's time to start
getting to know thyself.
>> BACKMAN: Absolutely.
Thyself in the greatest
and then largest way.
>> REGINA: Yes, any final
thoughts before we say goodbye?
>> BACKMAN: I mean, I'll just
say that I think if people
accept themselves more, if
people accept that what they
think is a flaw, like
a fear, a phobia,
something they can't let go
of, dig in deeper and know that
it's something at the soul
level that if you understand it
and know what it's
about, you can let it go.
But it's not a flaw or
something that's wrong with you.
>> REGINA: Right.
And I know it's a
little trite, but that's
where even things like
journaling come in,
where you just let it flow,
get it out, go back, and look
at it with this lens
that we're talking about.
And you start learning
about yourself
and where that's coming from.
So absolutely beautiful.
I love your work,
and I'll look forward
to talking to you after
your next book's out.
>> BACKMAN: Thank you so much.
It's been wonderful.
>> REGINA: To learn more
about Linda's regression work,
workshops, and such, you can
go to ravenheartcenter.com.
They do all kinds of
workshops around the world.
You can also watch my
previous interview with her
here in the Gaia Archives.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on "Open Minds."